Questions to prepare for Session 3 (29.1.24, 11:30)
Questions for Chapter 03A (could also be exam questions):  Material: Chapter 03 A video and presentation slides; Material->advection.py (Python script); as support: lecture notes chapter 4.2 (except 4.2.3); 
1) What does the cell degree of freedom represent in the derived discrete form using the finite volume method?
   * The value within the cell is the DOF. This can represent a velocity, a concentration a temperature and so on. The Flux $F_{i + \frac{1}{2}}$ is the change
2) What is the condition for the numerical flux to be conservative?
   * $F_{KL} = -F_{LK}$
3) Name some choices for the numerical flux and note whether they result in a monotone scheme or not.
   * Lax-Friedrichs -> Yes
   * Central FLux -> No
   * Upwind-Scheme -> Depend on the direction (reasonable for $f\prime > 0$)
4) Why is it so important to avoid numerical oscillations? In which situations in particular?
   * If there are actual biological oszillation


In the Exercise folder, you find the Python script advection.py. It contains an implementation of the finite volume method in 1D. Without modifications, it solves a linear advection equation starting with a rectangle-shaped initial profile. It simultaneously solves the problem with different numerical flux choices.
1) Run the Python script and inspect the simulation results. Describe the results using what you learned in the lecture.
      * We observe oszillation for central difference (also with flux-limiters)
      * Upwind-Scheme is good - because flow direction is pos.
      * Lax-Friedrichs has a diffusive part (which gets reduced for finer resolutions)
2) Modify the script to see the influence on the result. Prepare one modification and a description of what interesting things can be seen for the live session. Ideas: You could refine the grid by increasing the value of num_cells (e.g. 1000 or even 10000). By commenting in/out entries in the dictionary schemes (l.138) you can decide which schemes are run.  You could change the flux function f(c) to 0.5*velocity*c*c to get a nonlinear Burgers equation solver (you will see a rarefaction wave develop). You could modify the initial solution by changing the function exact_sol. You could change the CFL number (corresponds to C_max in lecture notes 4.2.1), e.g. slightly above 1 or below 0.1 (above 0.0). 
Questions for Chapter 03B (could also be exam questions):  Material: Chapter 03 B video and presentation slides; Exercise->Exercise_part_one.pdf
1) Complete the exercises in Exercise->Exercise_part_one.pdf. The results will be needed in the Python implementation of the solver in the third week. If you can't finish all the tasks, you will have a bit more time in the last week alongside the programming exercise.
2) What is the goal of reformulating the system in terms of the characteristic variables? What is easier to decide in the reformulated system?
   * We have decoupled Equation of 1D, where in the Eigenvector the direction of information is encoded